help/getting-started/implementation-documentation.md, before:

---
title: Streaming Media Implementation Documentation
description: Learn where to find information about Streaming Media implementations.
uuid: null
feature: Streaming Media
role: User, Admin, Data Engineer
exl-id: c37aeea2-7c8f-4815-ae28-634ae691e84f
---
# Streaming Media Collection implementation documentation {#streaming-media-documentation}

Documentation for the Streaming Media Collection is located in multiple product websites. Depending on how you implement the streaming media collection, you may need to reference one or more documentation sets.

Use the information in the following table to locate documentation for your chosen implementation method.

## Implementation documentation {#media-documentation}

| Implementation | Documentation  |
|:-----------------------:|----------------|
| **Web** | * [Send Web data to Edge with the Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK](/help/implementation/edge/edge-web-sdk.md) <br> * [Web implementation for streaming media](/help/implementation/media-sdk/setup/web-implementation.md) <br>* [Web Implementation with Adobe Media Analytics for Audio and Video extension ](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-platform/tags/extensions/adobe/media-analytics-3x/overview.html?lang=en) |
| **Mobile**      | * [Send Mobile data to Edge with the Adobe Experience Platform mobile SDK](/help/implementation/edge/edge-mobile-sdk.md) <br> *[Adobe Experience Platform Mobile SDK Guide](https://developer.adobe.com/client-sdks/documentation/) <br> *[Adobe Media Analytics for Audio and Video extension](https://developer.adobe.com/client-sdks/documentation/adobe-media-analytics/)<br> *[Current Mobile SDK Versions](https://developer.adobe.com/client-sdks/documentation/current-sdk-versions/) <br> *[Mobile implementation for streaming media](/help/implementation/media-sdk/setup/mobile-implementation.md)| |  |
| **OTT**    | *[Chromecast 3.0 SDK for Adobe Marketing Cloud Solutions](https://adobe-marketing-cloud.github.io/media-sdks/reference/chromecast/)<br> *[Set up Chromecast](/help/implementation/media-sdk/setup/set-up-chromecast.md)<br> * [Adobe Experience Platform Roku SDK](/help/implementation/edge/implementation-edge.md) <br> *[Set up Roku](/help/implementation/media-sdk/setup/set-up-roku.md) |
| **Adobe Experience Platform APIs**  | *[Media Collection APIs](/help/implementation/media-collection-api/mc-api-overview.md)|

## Additional documentation {#additional-documentation}

The table below lists documentation about Adobe products that are used with the Streaming Media Collection.

| Product | Documentation  |
|:-----------------------:|----------------|
| **Adobe Analytics**    | *[Adobe Analytics Implementation Guide](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/analytics/implementation/home.html?lang=en)<br>  *[Adobe Analytics Components Guide](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/analytics/components/home.html?lang=en)<br> *[Adobe Analytics Tools Guide](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/analytics/analyze/home.html?lang=en)<br> *[Adobe Analytics Tutorials](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/analytics.html?lang=en#tutorials) <br> *[Adobe Analytics APIs](https://developer.adobe.com/analytics-apis/docs/2.0/)<br> *[Mobile implementation for Analytics](https://developer.adobe.com/client-sdks/documentation/adobe-analytics/)|
| **Tags**      | *[Adobe Experience Platform Tags documentation](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-platform/tags/home.html) |

## Adobe Enterprise Tutorials {#adobe-tutorials}

Use [Adobe enterprise tutorials](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/home-tutorials.html) to leverage Adobe enterprise applications for your business needs. You can find helpful tutorials and training across Adobe Experience Cloud, Adobe Experience Platform, and Adobe Analytics.

Commit message:

updated product name throughout
When generally referring to streaming media for either AA or CJA: streaming media services
When referring to streaming media in AA: Adobe Analytics for Streaming Media
When referring to streaming media in CJA: Customer Journey Analytics Streaming Media Collection

help/getting-started/implementation-documentation.md, after:

---
title: Streaming media services implementation documentation
description: Learn where to find information about implementations for streaming media services.
uuid: null
feature: Streaming Media
role: User, Admin, Data Engineer
exl-id: c37aeea2-7c8f-4815-ae28-634ae691e84f
---
# Streaming media services implementation documentation {#streaming-media-documentation}

Documentation for implementing the Customer Journey Analytics Streaming Media Collection Add-on or the Adobe Analyticcs for Streaming Media Add-on is located in multiple product websites. Depending on how you implement the streaming media services, you may need to reference one or more documentation sets.

Use the information in the following table to locate documentation for your chosen implementation method.

## Implementation documentation {#media-documentation}

| Implementation | Documentation  |
|:-----------------------:|----------------|
| **Web** | * [Send Web data to Edge with the Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK](/help/implementation/edge/edge-web-sdk.md) <br> * [Web implementation for streaming media services](/help/implementation/media-sdk/setup/web-implementation.md) <br>* [Web Implementation with Adobe Media Analytics for Audio and Video extension ](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-platform/tags/extensions/adobe/media-analytics-3x/overview.html?lang=en) |
| **Mobile**      | * [Send Mobile data to Edge with the Adobe Experience Platform mobile SDK](/help/implementation/edge/edge-mobile-sdk.md) <br> *[Adobe Experience Platform Mobile SDK Guide](https://developer.adobe.com/client-sdks/documentation/) <br> *[Adobe Media Analytics for Audio and Video extension](https://developer.adobe.com/client-sdks/documentation/adobe-media-analytics/)<br> *[Current Mobile SDK Versions](https://developer.adobe.com/client-sdks/documentation/current-sdk-versions/) <br> *[Mobile implementation for streaming media services](/help/implementation/media-sdk/setup/mobile-implementation.md)| |  |
| **OTT**    | *[Chromecast 3.0 SDK for Adobe Marketing Cloud Solutions](https://adobe-marketing-cloud.github.io/media-sdks/reference/chromecast/)<br> *[Set up Chromecast](/help/implementation/media-sdk/setup/set-up-chromecast.md)<br> * [Adobe Experience Platform Roku SDK](/help/implementation/edge/implementation-edge.md) <br> *[Set up Roku](/help/implementation/media-sdk/setup/set-up-roku.md) |
| **Adobe Experience Platform APIs**  | *[Media Collection APIs](/help/implementation/media-collection-api/mc-api-overview.md)|

## Additional documentation {#additional-documentation}

The table below lists documentation about Adobe products that are used with the streaming media services.

| Product | Documentation  |
|:-----------------------:|----------------|
| **Adobe Analytics**    | *[Adobe Analytics Implementation Guide](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/analytics/implementation/home.html?lang=en)<br>  *[Adobe Analytics Components Guide](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/analytics/components/home.html?lang=en)<br> *[Adobe Analytics Tools Guide](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/analytics/analyze/home.html?lang=en)<br> *[Adobe Analytics Tutorials](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/analytics.html?lang=en#tutorials) <br> *[Adobe Analytics APIs](https://developer.adobe.com/analytics-apis/docs/2.0/)<br> *[Mobile implementation for Analytics](https://developer.adobe.com/client-sdks/documentation/adobe-analytics/)|
| **Tags**      | *[Adobe Experience Platform Tags documentation](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-platform/tags/home.html) |

## Adobe Enterprise Tutorials {#adobe-tutorials}

Use [Adobe enterprise tutorials](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/home-tutorials.html) to leverage Adobe enterprise applications for your business needs. You can find helpful tutorials and training across Adobe Experience Cloud, Adobe Experience Platform, and Adobe Analytics.
