help/use-cases/track-av-playback/track-core/track-core-javascript/track-core-js3.md, before:

---
title: Learn How To Track Core Playback Using JavaScript v3.x
description: Learn how to to implement core tracking using the Media SDK in a browser using JavaScript 3.x apps.
exl-id: f3145450-82ba-4790-91a4-9d2cc97bbaa5
feature: Media Analytics
role: User, Admin, Data Engineer
---
# Track core playback using JavaScript 3.x{#track-core-playback-on-javascript}

This documentation covers tracking in version 3.x of the SDK.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>
>If you are implementing any previous versions of the SDK, you can download the Developers Guides here: [Download SDKs](/help/getting-started/download-sdks.md)

1. **Initial tracking setup**

    Identify when the user triggers the intention of playback (the user clicks play and/or autoplay is on) and create a `MediaObject` instance.

    [createMediaObject API](https://adobe-marketing-cloud.github.io/media-sdks/reference/javascript/MediaHeartbeat.html#.createMediaObject)

    |  Variable Name  | Type |  Description  |
    | --- | --- | --- |
    |  `name`  | string | Non empty string denoting media name. |
    |  `id`  | string | Non empty string denoting unique media identifier.  |
    |  `length`  | number | Positive number denoting length of media in seconds. Use 0 if length is unknown.  |
    |  `streamType`  | string |   |
    |  `mediaType`  | | Type of media (Audio or Video). |

    **`StreamType` constants:**

    |  Constant Name  | Description&nbsp;&nbsp;  |
    |---|---|
    |  `VOD`  | Stream type for Video on Demand.  |
    |  `AOD`  | Stream type for Audio on Demand.  |

    **`MediaType` constants:**

    |  Constant Name  | Description  |
    |---|---|
    |  `Audio`  | Media type for Audio streams.  |
    |  `Video`  | Media type for Video streams.  |

    ```
    var mediaObject = ADB.Media.createMediaObject(<MEDIA_NAME>,
                                      <MEDIA_ID,
                                      <MEDIA_LENGTH>,
                                      <STREAM_TYPE>,
                                      <MEDIA_TYPE>);
    ```

1. **Attach metadata**

    Optionally attach standard and/or custom metadata to the tracking session through context data variables.

    * **Standard metadata**

       >[!NOTE]
       >
       >Attaching the standard metadata is optional.

       * Media metadata keys API Reference - [Standard metadata keys - JavaScript](https://adobe-marketing-cloud.github.io/media-sdks/reference/javascript)

          See the comprehensive set of available metadata here: [Audio and video parameters](/help/implementation/variables/audio-video-parameters.md)

    * **Custom metadata**

       Create a variable object for the custom variables and populate with the data for this media. For example:

       ```js
       /* Set context data */
        var contextData = {};

        //Standard metadata
        contextData[ADB.Media.VideoMetadataKeys] = "Sample Episode";
        contextData[ADB.Media.VideoMetadataKeys] = "Sample Show";

        //Custom metadata
        contextData["isUserLoggedIn"] = "false";
        contextData["tvStation"] = "Sample TV Station";
       ```

1. **Track the intention to start playback**

    To begin tracking a media session, call `trackSessionStart` on the Media Heartbeat instance:

    ```js
    var mediaObject = ADB.Media.createMediaObject("video-name",
                                                  "video-id",
                                                  60.0,
                                                  ADB.Media.StreamType.VOD,
                                                  ADB.Media.MediaType.Video);

    var contextData = {};

    //Standard metadata
    contextData[ADB.Media.VideoMetadataKeys] = "Sample Episode";
    contextData[ADB.Media.VideoMetadataKeys] = "Sample Show";

    //Custom metadata
    contextData["isUserLoggedIn"] = "false";
    contextData["tvStation"] = "Sample TV Station";

    tracker.trackSessionStart(mediaObject, contextData);
    ```

    >[!IMPORTANT]
    >
    >`trackSessionStart` tracks the user intention of playback, not the beginning of the playback. This API is used to load the data/metadata and to estimate the time-to-start QoS metric (the time duration between `trackSessionStart` and `trackPlay`).

    >[!NOTE]
    >
    >If you are not using contextData, simply send an empty object for the `data` argument in `trackSessionStart`.

1. **Track the actual start of playback**

    Identify the event from the media player for the beginning of the playback, where the first frame of the media is rendered on the screen, and call `trackPlay`:

    ```js
    tracker.trackPlay();
    ```

1. **Track the completion of playback**

    Identify the event from the media player for the completion of the playback, where the user has watched the content until the end, and call `trackComplete`:

    ```js
    tracker.trackComplete();
    ```

1. **Track the end of the session**

    Identify the event from the media player for the unloading/closing of the playback, where the user closes the media and/or the media is completed and has been unloaded, and call `trackSessionEnd`:

    ```js
    tracker.trackSessionEnd();
    ```

    >[!IMPORTANT]
    >
    >`trackSessionEnd` marks the end of a tracking session. If the session was successfully watched to completion, where the user watched the content until the end, ensure that `trackComplete` is called before `trackSessionEnd`. Any other `track*` API call is ignored after `trackSessionEnd`, except for `trackSessionStart` for a new tracking session.

1. **Track all possible pause scenarios**

    Identify the event from the media player for pause and call `trackPause`:

    ```js
    tracker.trackPause();
    ```

    **Pause Scenarios**

    Identify any scenario in which the media player will pause and make sure that `trackPause` is properly called. The following scenarios all require that your app call `trackPause()`:

    * The user explicitly hits pause in the app.
    * The player puts itself into the Pause state.
    * (*Mobile Apps*) - The user puts the application into the background, but you want the app to keep the session open.
    * (*Mobile Apps*) - Any type of system interrupt occurs that causes an application to be backgrounded. For example, the user receives a call, or a pop up from another application occurs, but you want the application to keep the session alive to give the user the opportunity to resume the media from the point of interruption.

1. Identify the event from the player for play and/or resume from pause and call `trackPlay`:

    ```js
    tracker.trackPlay();
    ```

    >[!TIP]
    >
    >This may be the same event source that was used in Step 4. Ensure that each `trackPause()` API call is paired with a following `trackPlay()` API call when the playback resumes.

* Tracking scenarios: [VOD playback with no ads](/help/use-cases/tracking-scenarios/vod-no-intrs-details.md)
* Sample player included with the JavaScript SDK for a complete tracking example.

Commit message:

updates per feedback from Arjun

help/use-cases/track-av-playback/track-core/track-core-javascript/track-core-js3.md, after:

---
title: Learn How To Track Core Playback Using JavaScript v3.x
description: Learn how to to implement core tracking using the Media SDK in a browser using JavaScript 3.x apps.
exl-id: f3145450-82ba-4790-91a4-9d2cc97bbaa5
feature: Media Analytics
role: User, Admin, Data Engineer
---
# Track core playback using JavaScript 3.x{#track-core-playback-on-javascript}

This documentation covers tracking in version 3.x of the SDK.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>
>If you are implementing any previous versions of the SDK, you can download the Developers Guides here: [Download SDKs](/help/getting-started/download-sdks.md)

1. **Initial tracking setup**

    Identify when the user triggers the intention of playback (the user clicks play and/or autoplay is on) and create a `MediaObject` instance.

    [createMediaObject API](https://adobe-marketing-cloud.github.io/media-sdks/reference/javascript/MediaHeartbeat.html#.createMediaObject)

    |  Variable Name  | Type |  Description  |
    | --- | --- | --- |
    |  `name`  | string | Non empty string denoting media name. |
    |  `id`  | string | Non empty string denoting unique media identifier.  |
    |  `length`  | number | Positive number denoting length of media in seconds. Use 0 if length is unknown.  |
    |  `streamType`  | string |   |
    |  `mediaType`  | | Type of media (Audio or Video). |

    **`StreamType` constants:**

    |  Constant Name  | Description&nbsp;&nbsp;  |
    |---|---|
    |  `VOD`  | Stream type for Video on Demand.  |
    |  `AOD`  | Stream type for Audio on Demand.  |

    **`MediaType` constants:**

    |  Constant Name  | Description  |
    |---|---|
    |  `Audio`  | Media type for Audio streams.  |
    |  `Video`  | Media type for Video streams.  |

    ```
    var mediaObject = ADB.Media.createMediaObject(<MEDIA_NAME>,
                                      <MEDIA_ID,
                                      <MEDIA_LENGTH>,
                                      <STREAM_TYPE>,
                                      <MEDIA_TYPE>);
    ```

1. **Attach metadata**

    Optionally attach standard and/or custom metadata to the tracking session through context data variables.

    * **Standard metadata**

       >[!NOTE]
       >
       >Attaching the standard metadata is optional.

       * Media metadata keys API Reference - [Standard metadata keys - JavaScript](https://adobe-marketing-cloud.github.io/media-sdks/reference/javascript)

          See the comprehensive set of available metadata here: [Audio and video parameters](/help/implementation/variables/audio-video-parameters.md)

    * **Custom metadata**

       Create a variable object for the custom variables and populate with the data for this media. For example:

       ```js
       /* Set context data */
        var contextData = {};

        //Standard metadata
        contextData[ADB.Media.VideoMetadataKeys] = "Sample Episode";
        contextData[ADB.Media.VideoMetadataKeys] = "Sample Show";

        //Custom metadata
        contextData["isUserLoggedIn"] = "false";
        contextData["tvStation"] = "Sample TV Station";
       ```

1. **Track the intention to start playback**

    To begin tracking a media session, call `trackSessionStart` on the Media Heartbeat instance:

    ```js
    var mediaObject = ADB.Media.createMediaObject("video-name",
                                                  "video-id",
                                                  60.0,
                                                  ADB.Media.StreamType.VOD,
                                                  ADB.Media.MediaType.Video);

    var contextData = {};

    //Standard metadata
    contextData[ADB.Media.VideoMetadataKeys] = "Sample Episode";
    contextData[ADB.Media.VideoMetadataKeys] = "Sample Show";

    //Custom metadata
    contextData["isUserLoggedIn"] = "false";
    contextData["tvStation"] = "Sample TV Station";

    tracker.trackSessionStart(mediaObject, contextData);
    ```

    >[!IMPORTANT]
    >
    >`trackSessionStart` tracks the user intention of playback, not the beginning of the playback. This API is used to load the data/metadata and to estimate the time-to-start QoS metric (the time duration between `trackSessionStart` and `trackPlay`).

    >[!NOTE]
    >
    >If you are not using contextData, simply send an empty object for the `data` argument in `trackSessionStart`.

1. **Track the actual start of playback**

    Identify the event from the media player for the beginning of the playback, where the first frame of the media is rendered on the screen, and call `trackPlay`:

    ```js
    tracker.trackPlay();
    ```

1. **Update playhead value**

    When media playhead changes, notify the SDK by calling the `mediaUpdatePlayhead` API. <br /> For video-on-demand (VOD), the value is specified in seconds from the beginning of the media item. <br /> For live streaming, if the player does not provide information about the content duration, the value can be specified as the number of seconds since midnight UTC of that day.

    ```
    tracker.updatePlayhead(position)
    ```

   >[!NOTE]
   >
   >Consider the following when calling the `tracker.updatePlayhead` API:
   >* When using progress markers, the content duration is required and the playhead needs to be updated as number of seconds from the beginning of the media item, starting with 0.
   >* When using media SDKs, you must call the `tracker.updatePlayhead` API at least once per second. 

1. **Track the completion of playback**

    Identify the event from the media player for the completion of the playback, where the user has watched the content until the end, and call `trackComplete`:

    ```js
    tracker.trackComplete();
    ```

1. **Track the end of the session**

    Identify the event from the media player for the unloading/closing of the playback, where the user closes the media and/or the media is completed and has been unloaded, and call `trackSessionEnd`:

    ```js
    tracker.trackSessionEnd();
    ```

    >[!IMPORTANT]
    >
    >`trackSessionEnd` marks the end of a tracking session. If the session was successfully watched to completion, where the user watched the content until the end, ensure that `trackComplete` is called before `trackSessionEnd`. Any other `track*` API call is ignored after `trackSessionEnd`, except for `trackSessionStart` for a new tracking session.

1. **Track all possible pause scenarios**

    Identify the event from the media player for pause and call `trackPause`:

    ```js
    tracker.trackPause();
    ```

    **Pause Scenarios**

    Identify any scenario in which the media player will pause and make sure that `trackPause` is properly called. The following scenarios all require that your app call `trackPause()`:

    * The user explicitly hits pause in the app.
    * The player puts itself into the Pause state.
    * (*Mobile Apps*) - The user puts the application into the background, but you want the app to keep the session open.
    * (*Mobile Apps*) - Any type of system interrupt occurs that causes an application to be backgrounded. For example, the user receives a call, or a pop up from another application occurs, but you want the application to keep the session alive to give the user the opportunity to resume the media from the point of interruption.

1. Identify the event from the player for play and/or resume from pause and call `trackPlay`:

    ```js
    tracker.trackPlay();
    ```

    >[!TIP]
    >
    >This may be the same event source that was used in Step 4. Ensure that each `trackPause()` API call is paired with a following `trackPlay()` API call when the playback resumes.

* Tracking scenarios: [VOD playback with no ads](/help/use-cases/tracking-scenarios/vod-no-intrs-details.md)
* Sample player included with the JavaScript SDK for a complete tracking example.
